Bruce Wayne: It's not who I am underneath, but what I do that defines me.


The Joker: This is what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object. You truly are incorruptible, aren't you? You won't kill me out of some misplaced sense of self-righteousness. And I won't kill you because you're just too much fun. I think you and I are destined to do this forever.


Harvey Dent: You either die a hero or you live long enough to see yourself become the villain.


Jim Gordon: He's the hero Gotham deserves, but not the one it needs right now. So we'll hunt him. Because he can take it. Because he's not our hero. He's a silent guardian, a watchful protector. A dark knight.


Bruce Wayne: People are dying, Alfred. What would you have me do?
Alfred Pennyworth: Endure, Master Wayne. Take it. They'll hate you for it, but that's the point of Batman, he can be the outcast. He can make the choice that no one else can make, the right choice.


Bane: When Gotham is ashes, you have my permission to die.


Maitre D: Sir, the pool is for decoration, and your friends do not have swimwear.
Bruce Wayne: Well, they're European.


Harvey Dent: The night is darkest just before the dawn. And I promise you, the dawn is coming.


Bruce Wayne: Have you told anyone I'm coming back?
Alfred Pennyworth: I just couldn't figure the legal ramifications of bringing you back from the dead.


Alfred Pennyworth: Some men just want to watch the world burn.


Jim Gordon: I knew Harvey Dent. I was his friend. And it will be a very long time before someone... Inspires us the way he did. I believed in Harvey Dent.


Alfred Pennyworth: You are as precious to me as you were to your own mother and father. I swore to them that I would protect you, and I haven't.


Alfred Pennyworth: Drive sports cars, date movie stars, buy things that are not for sale... who knows, Master Wayne? You start pretending to have fun, you might even have a little by accident.


The Joker: Don't talk like one of them. You're not! Even if you'd like to be. To them, you're just a freak, like me! They need you right now, but when they don't, they'll cast you out, like a leper! You see, their morals, their code, it's a bad joke. Dropped at the first sign of trouble. They're only as good as the world allows them to be. I'll show you. When the chips are down, these... these civilized people, they'll eat each other. See, I'm not a monster. I'm just ahead of the curve.


Nixon: What are you?
Bane: I'm Gotham's reckoning.


Selina Kyle: There's a storm coming.
Bruce Wayne: You sound like you're looking forward to it.
Selina Kyle: I'm adaptable.


Prisoner: You are in hell, little man! [punches Bruce Wayne]
Prisoner: And I am the devil! [punches him again]
Bruce Wayne: You're not the devil. You're practice.


Uniformed Policeman: [describing the Batmobile] He is in a vehicle!
Dispatcher: Make and color?
Uniformed Policeman: It's a black... [looks at his partner, who shrugs]
Uniformed Policeman: ...tank!


Bruce Wayne: [as Alfred opens the curtains] Bats are nocturnal.
Alfred Pennyworth: Bats may be, but even for billionaire playboys, three o'clock is pushing it. The price of leading a double life, I fear. Your theatrics made an impression.


Bruce Wayne: I don't care about my name.
Alfred Pennyworth: It's not just your name, sir! It's your father's name! And it's all that's left of him. Don't destroy it.


Henri Ducard: Your compassion is a weakness your enemies will not share.
Bruce Wayne: That's why it's so important. It separates us from them.


Alfred Pennyworth: Why do we fall sir? So we might learn to pick ourselves up.
Bruce Wayne: You still haven't given up on me?
Alfred Pennyworth: Never.


Batman-Wannabe: What gives you the right? What's the difference between you and me? [Batman lowers himself into the Batmobile]
Batman: I'm not wearing hockey pads!


Bruce Wayne: Well, today I found out what Batman can't do. He can't endure this. Today, you get to say "I told you so."
Alfred Pennyworth: Today, I don't want to.


Alfred Pennyworth: Will you be wanting the Batpod, sir?
Bruce Wayne: In the middle of the day, Alfred? Not very subtle.
Alfred Pennyworth: The Lamborghini, then. [with deadpan sarcasm]
Alfred Pennyworth: Much more subtle.